And do we call this by its initials, the URL, as in HRC in Texas?
Well, on campus, yes, people know that, but I don't think it's nationally known as the URL.
We are generic, the Department of Special Collections, the University Research Library, and
As of now, we don't have a name attached to it.
HRC is actually HRHRC, right?
Even Harry's name is on the building.
A lot of people think that he had that in mind.
Right.
But as I started to say, I think we are a young university, first of all, and I think that's one of the reasons that perhaps
UCLA isn't thought of, as I said before, in the same breath with Houghton or Beinecke or the great private libraries like Morgan or Newberry.
But when you think of just the breadth of the collections alone, and I can give you numbers if you want to start with numbers, okay, more than 300,000 rare books, approximately 25 million manuscripts,
five million photographs.
And the manuscripts are in approximately 2,000 collections.
So, I came here in 84, and I felt one of my major tasks was to publicize what this library has to offer.
And so, we have embarked on a program of publications, and I'll be glad to give you
any of the ones that appeal to you.
There's a case full of them outside the door.
Well, that's okay.
I'd be happy if that helped.
But I felt that scholars need to know more about the resources that are here.
We have become the second city of America, notwithstanding the outcome of the basketball game last night, and a major research hub.
I mean, I think you're here and you're seeing not only UCLA, but I assume you either have interviewed before or will interview people at the Huntington, people at the Getty, USC, etc.
This is a cultural community that I think is sometimes overlooked because of Hollywood, the film industry, and so forth.
But this is a very strong cultural community.
And UCLA has played a part in that since the 1920s.
And that's when this campus was really established.
I can go into some of the history.
But I think the main thing that I want to point out is that this has all happened in... This campus was opened in 1929, about three or four weeks before the crash of the stock market.
It really is.
When you said young, I thought you were saying like 100 years, which is... No, well, all right.
What happened was Berkeley was established in 1868.
By the turn of the century, there was enough application for admission to University of California from people in the south part of California that the regents decided they needed another campus.
So in 1919, they established what they called the Southern Branch of the University of California.
And this was closer to downtown on Vermont Avenue.
And then this campus was planned and the first four buildings of it were constructed between 1925 and 1929.
And the campus here on the west end of town opened in 1929.
There have been five university librarians.
Only one of them is still not living.
It is not living now.
I mean, everything that has happened, I could run off a dozen names of people, and they're all still alive, you know, and they're all still doing things.
The first head of special collections, Neil Harlow, just published a book on mapping of California, and he was head of special collections from 1946 to 1952.
So I think this is, you know, it's sort of like that adage about hard science where 99% of all the great discoveries in science have been made by people who are still living, you know, that kind of thing.
And you think back to Copernicus and all of the greats in the history of science, and we kind of feel that way at UCLA as well about the library, that it's all happened in a very short period of time.
It is interesting that the decision was made.
Apparently, from the outset, and I'll correct me if I'm wrong, but in addition to having a southern branch, as you call it, you also saw the need for establishing really important special collections.
Well, again, this is the heart of it, too, because this is where I think it gets really interesting.
Lawrence Clark Powell, who was our second university librarian, began work here under John Goodwin,
the first librarian in the middle 1930s.
And the first job that Larry Powell had here was to catalog the Californiana collection.
So this is around 1935, 1936.
Larry became university librarian in 1943, and by 1946 had amassed enough material where special collections, which was a lacked room up until then,
was large enough to have its own department with its own reference desk and that sort of thing.
And so that was when the department was formally established.
And Larry and his successor, Bob Vosper, who was another great university librarian here, were bookmen.
And they really amassed collections, but it was always a struggle.
Larry, in fortune and friendship,
in that part of my graphical work, said at one point that he was always going begging up north, and so was UCLA.
Larry's line was, Berkeley gets support in yards, UCLA gets support in inches.
And it wasn't until Franklin Murphy became chancellor in 1960 that UCLA really blossomed.
So the campus was established 60 years ago,
two years ago, but it was really only about 30 years ago that UCLA really came into its own, and it was really Franklin Murphy's doing.
And you said go begging up north, you mean Sacramento.
Yeah, yeah.
For state money.
But then in fact, who might be up north?
No, no, for state funding, for equitable funding between the campuses.
In the meantime, the legislature and the regents of the University of California were establishing seven other campuses.
There are nine University of California's now in the state, and Berkeley and UCLA are the largest two, but there are other major campuses as well.
Do you feel you've surpassed Berkeley and Special Collections?
No.
Have you equal them?
I think when you—in fairness to everybody, Special Collections are not really
comparable because everybody has unique material.
You can deal with it quantitatively, and Berkeley is still bigger in numbers of materials.
I think their manuscript count is pushing 50 million, something like that.
But I would say we are comparable in our readership, in what we're trying to do.
We work very closely together.
We don't think of ourselves really as rivals anymore the way it was in Powell's time, where
and in the early days of Franklin Murphy's tenure as the chancellor, but back then there was competition.
How come Berkeley gets all this and we only get this and so forth?
And Murphy was the one who really put this campus on par with Berkeley.
And our programs are different.
I mean, we have a medical school.
They don't.
Their medical school is University of California, San Francisco, which is across the Bay.
And so it's very hard to make line-for-line comparisons.
But I would think that we are holding our own now, and we are not in the shadow of them any longer.
Do you collect similar things?
I mean, are there... I would... Go ahead.
That they would go after, that you'd go after as well?
Not really anymore, because we're really trying to cooperate.
We both have Californiana collections.
We have a tacit agreement that says that we will collect principally south of the Tehachapi mountain range, and they will collect principally north of the Tehachapi, so that we are covering the state regionally, but there are certainly things that are pertinent to the whole state that both of us will want.
Our heads of collection development have
sit on a collection development council that is a nine campus council and they are working very hard especially in hard financial times to get more formalized cooperative collection development but we've always talked to one another when it comes to special collections we do the same thing with the getty uh huntington usc locally
so that we're not tripping over each other at auctions and so forth.
Our attitude within Los Angeles is if there's something important, it ought to be in Los Angeles.
And it's becoming less and less important who actually owns it as much as the fact that the resource needs to be here and we have cooperative research facilities and so forth.
An example of that, the Getty Center uses our online
system called Orion.
They are hardwired into it.
The quid pro quo for it was that they put up the money for us to convert our card catalog as completely as possible to the online system.
So, in effect, our library online catalog is their library online catalog now, and their scholars
and their staff have, in effect, faculty status and faculty privileges here.
That's the kind of cooperation I'm talking about.
Then we get into areas of what are you collecting, what are we collecting?
Well, let's just take what... I'll skip around to the Huntington for a second.
Sorry.
Dr. Murthy was very interested in early Italian printing.
And that's become one of our great collections, a collection of world renown.
And we've been buying a lot of 15th and 16th century Italian books.
Well, we talked to the Huntington.
The Getty isn't collecting this area so much except for iconographical items.
And even there, we're not really overlapping much at all.
We talked to the Huntington, and the Huntington has got probably the second greatest collection of 15th century books in the country after the Library of Congress.
So we're not duplicating what they already have.
These are expensive books, and what's the point of us having the same thing at UCLA, which 20 miles away is at the Huntington?
So first and foremost, we're not duplicating their Italian holdings.
Secondly, they are pretty much not buying anything more Italian because they know we are, so they're concentrating in German books of the jury.
That's what we're trying to do.
And I think when you're in a young community like Los Angeles, there's more of an opportunity to do that sort of cooperative collecting than perhaps there is in the East where you look at Harvard, 300 years old or plus, and...
However, I was just going to say, I've heard the same thing in Boston.
Well, Roger Stoddard will say, hey, the BPL is collecting whatever, and he'll call Laura Marty over at Boston Public Library and say, are you interested in this?
Because they have a few collections which overlap, but really their interest is in serving the scholar in this little area.
And if you have to go across town, fine, as long as the material is in the community.
Yeah, and I think, in fairness to them, I didn't mean to disparage
Roger, Harvard, or Boston, but I think everybody is doing that now.
I think we're all coming to see, when you look at general collection material, the price of serial subscriptions, the price of reference books are getting so expensive that I think we're all at the point that we're having to share collections, we're having to establish issues of ownership
who will own what, and then who will have access to that if the other person is agreeing, no, I won't own that if you will let me come and see yours, and in return, I will concentrate in this area and do that.
I think every major metropolitan community, and I guess in the Midwest, some of the states as a whole are working towards those kinds of cooperative arrangements.
Do you allow undergraduates in here?
Absolutely.
Our rules are very simple.
You have to be over the age of 18 to use the University of California libraries, period.
And this is so that we don't have every one of the 150,000 high school seniors in here writing their term papers, you know.
specifically to answer your question about special collections, we encourage the use of undergraduates.
I've actually taught courses here.
I taught a course in the history department called Research with Primary Resources, California History Without Textbooks, and it was geared to undergraduates.
All right.
I have a
sort of a Catholic Church approach to this, give me an undergraduate before he graduates and he's mine for life, you know, that sort of thing.
When it comes to showing them how to use rare books, how to use manuscripts, that they don't have to regurgitate textbooks, that they can go in-depth, even as an undergraduate, with a term paper and, you know, look at original documents about
the establishment of California as a state in 1850, and what that entailed, taking over from Mexico, in effect.
And we have documentation here that they can look at and examine and figure out, well, and then maybe go to the textbooks and say, now, is this just glossed over?
Usually it's accurate, but how much am I really seeing when it says...
I'm blanking out on the name right now, but somebody, you know, marches in and takes over Monterey, for example.
By the same token, what was it, Sheldon said, you know, history repeats itself, but historians repeat one another.
And, you know, maybe a kid might find something that maybe wasn't available to that historian, too, right?
And do you find that you get pretty interesting papers out of these?
Absolutely.
I have a person who now works for me who was in one of those classes several years ago.
There is a pageant that goes on here every year called the Ramona Pageant.
I don't know if you've heard of that.
And it happens out in the desert in a town called Hemet.
But it's based on a myth about a woman named Ramona who married an Indian and, of course, was an outcast and so forth.
And this pageant depicts the myth.
I mean, there were movies made at this as well in the 30s and 40s.
I think Dolores Del Rio was in one of the movies.
But this staff member of mine wrote a very...
detailed paper about the actuality of the myth, you know, what was really behind it, examined, I think, about 60 different editions of Ramona that had come out, you know, and then looked at the pageant and so forth.
And a lot of that research was then used in one of our local public television series called Los Angeles History Project, and it was a whole
segment devoted to the Ramona myth.
That's a pretty good scholarship, isn't it?
Yeah, and a lot of what this woman did, you know, was used and given credit for in the KCET production of that.
So they can take it as far as they want.
You know, of course, that so many research facilities don't allow undergraduates.
I mean, you have to go in and really demonstrate
the worthiness of your research.
Right.
And we do interview.
I mean, if a kid comes in and says, I want to see your first edition of The Whale, you know, from the novel, okay, well, why do you want to do that?
He says, I've got to read it for class tomorrow.
We say, well, gee, why don't we see if there's a circulated copy in College Library, you know, and we can find that very quickly.
Or, why don't you go to the bookstore and buy the Riverside edition or whatever.
But if an undergraduate comes in and we've tried to work, especially, this library is focused in humanities and social sciences.
There are other special collections on campus I can tell you about later on.
But if they come in and they've got a specific project and they say, you know, I've got this topic, I'd really like to look at something, some primary resource about it, we're delighted.
I look upon it.
We're a state institution.
There's a certain amount of justification that has to be made for the existence of a special collections library, especially in hard financial times.
We're always the one that's looked at first and said, you know, do you really need this?
And I can say, yes, we do.
Look at our readership.
You know, we've got 100, 150 readers a week in here.
And
There are visiting scholars.
There's a woman from Columbia sitting in there right now looking at medieval Armenian manuscripts, and there could be an undergraduate sitting next to her looking at a copy of the whale, and he or she needs the bibliographic comparison.
Larry Fowler has been described as a great collector, an institutional collector.
Do you attribute a lot of the success of the collections to his
Absolutely.
And he established a pattern here.
I mean, he had to go, he said, you know, yes, we have to buy the individual book, but I have to look at UCLA as a research institute and a place where scholars will come.
And he actually tried to collect on a library level.
And, you know, there are numerous collections that came in here that were
wholesale libraries.
I'll show you the Michael Sadler collection, 19th century fiction, for example.
That's one of the great collections, and that was bought on block.
We have one of the greatest Spinoza collections in the world here.
That was bought on block.
It was the library of Abraham Wolfe.
We have a children's book collection that's made up of about five or six different collections that were bought
in the late 40s and 50s and into the early 60s.
The Cowan collection, which was the first Californiana collection that we had, and I mentioned earlier that Powell's first job was to catalog, was bought en bloc and so forth.
And it just goes on and on.
The woman who's looking at the medieval Armenian manuscripts is looking at
the Armenian part of the Karo Manassian collection that was bought from Dr. Manassian.
What was the date of this?
67 or 68.
And it was a whole library.
We bought a whole bookstore in Jerusalem.
We bought out a whole bookstore in Jerusalem to form the basis of our Judaic and Debraeva collection.
You say that really the major acquisitions
have been in the last 30 years or so?
Not really.
The major acquisitions have been since Powell's time, from the mid-30s to the present.
What I meant was that since Murphy's time, the whole UCLA campus has come up on par, let's say, with Berkeley, and we're looking at facilities and quality of the faculty and number of students and
when you get to the library, a comparable library budget.
UCLA is consistently ranked second or third among the Association of Research Libraries, Harvard being number one.
And we're constantly trading places back and forth with Berkeley.
But UCLA, Berkeley are either two or three.
And I'm talking about all the other major institutions, Yale, Princeton, Stanford, you name it.
Only Harvard surpasses these two libraries, and we'd like to say they had a 300-year head start.
Would you say that you experienced the same kind of explosive growth, say, that Texas did?
Of course, they're there.
Their situation is pretty interesting, as you know.
Would you say a comparable kind of program, a quote, when Reformation took place here?
Not exactly.
I think Harry Ransom was really the moving force there.
And you could really focus almost all of it on his efforts.
They decided they were going to collect 20th century literature, and boy did they do it.
And their book collections are...
twice or two and a half times the size of ours.
But we have more manuscripts now.
I mean, I think this is where it gets very hard to compare because, you know, it can't just be a numbers game.
I'm not checking in terms of the holdings either.
I'm talking about the mandate and the kind of backing you get from the state and the money they spent.
I mean, down there it was kind of, if you want it, we'll get it.
And we'll figure out how to pay for it later.
All right.
In that case,
Since Franklin Murphy's time, yes, it's been like Texas, because virtually everything that the library went to Franklin over, he got for them.
And it wasn't, but I guess the difference is it's not a case of go ahead and get it, we'll figure out how to pay for it later.
Powell and Vosper would go to him and say, you know, gee, here's the Manassian collection, and it will really establish health
form a foundation for our Center for Near Eastern Studies, and he said, fine, I'll get you the money, and he did.
I mean, it wasn't a case of, you know, saying, well, we'll figure it out.
He got the money, you know.
We just had a reception this past Sunday because one of our Near Eastern professors just published a book about
the cornerstone manuscript in the collection, which is a gospel that was done in Glazor, Armenia, around 1300.
And this is a scholarly work about it, but with complete plates of all illuminations and that sort of thing.
And Murphy was here, and Professor Sanjan, who published the book,
told the story of getting him an Austrian collection, and he said he'd gone, he and Bob Bosford had gone to Franklin Murphy and said, there's this opportunity.
And Murphy says, well, it just so happens I happen to be having lunch with one of the leaders of the Armenian community today.
Why don't you come join us?
You know?
And as
Professor Sanjian said, I remember distinctly what the lunch was.
It was cold cuts, and it cost Mr. Mnougian $25,000.
M-A-N-O-O-G-I-A-N is that?
Let me, if you could, you want to stop this for a second?
Let me get the book.
This is the book which just got published.
Good boy, who published that?
Dumbarton Notes.
We offered to the University of California first, and I wish you had.
I get the U-C-A-L.
Let's see.
Here's Manuvian's name.
Alex Manuvian, A-L-E-X, M-A-N-O-O-G-A-N.
This is in print now from Dumbarton Works?
Yeah.
Okay, Tony, why don't you... One school?
Mr. Manugian's gift was the beginning of it.
I don't remember what the total cost of the collection was.
I think it was maybe $200,000 at that point.
But I think the point I'm trying to make is, Sanjan and Vosfer go to see Murphy at 10 o'clock in the morning, and he just happens to be having lunch with Manugian that day.
He says, come along, and the whole thing is put into
into process right away.
This is the legacy of Franklin Murphy.
I mean, he is a doer, and he still does for us.
And isn't it wonderful if you had a man of Armenian descent or Armenian, American or Armenian, is that right?
Mr. Mnubi, I believe so, yes.
Well, he was doing something for his heritage, too.
Now, while he's not a collector, because again, this is a focus in my book on collecting, here is a man that's contributing to a collection.
That's also one of the great attributes, I think, of Franklin Murphy, that he is able to put people together.
We can talk about our Italian printing collection.
We started that 30 years ago, 1961, and there was an opportunity to buy 45 Aldi's.
from John Howell books in San Francisco.
And my predecessors went to Franklin and said, here's this opportunity.
They needed $13,000 to buy these 45 books, which is unbelievable.
But they didn't have it.
And he said, fine, go buy it.
And the money was there.
And that's what started.
We have over 750 Aldeans today.
How many is that over 750?
That's pretty spectacular.
I was offered one for one.
I served a similar money and I passed on it.
I haven't collected Aldeans.
How was that for Clark?
$50.
I can give you an order sheet.
I would love to have it.
And this was a collection that was developed here, too, wasn't developed by an individual collector.
I would say, is that correct?
You didn't buy one collection here.
Well, the Manassian collection formed the basis of the medieval Renaissance Middle Eastern manuscripts.
It's not just Armenian manuscripts.
uh 14th to 18th century we have about 15 000 middle eastern manuscripts and the core of them came from the manassian collection um and this gladzer gospel is um again one of 92 armenian manuscripts in that collusion and and it's it's it's an incredible and it should be noted too though we're from
the Worcester, Massachusetts area, which has a considerable Armenian community.
I think the largest is out here, isn't it?
So this has functioned for scholars in this area, I would think.
It's not just having a great Armenian collection.
No, it supports the community.
And now we get back to the issue of who can use the library.
It's a public institution.
And I think we've established a pretty good rapport
with the community, various aspects of the community, and we want them to have access to these resources.
This is a place worth of Huntington and the Getty, too, but this is the place for it.
To go back to, as you said, you would go to Murphy and say, we want this, and Murphy would say, fine, I will get the money.
In contrast, Texas bought on time, you know, in some cases.
It's the only state of state I've ever seen where actually they bought stuff, and
terms were worked out where they would pay for two or three or four years?
Oh, we've done that, too.
Have you?
Oh, yeah.
I mean, we did it with Manassian.
I mean, Manoogian put up, you know, the first pledge towards us, which was about 10%, you know, but the same day he got, you know, an initial response.
And that's really a funny story, too, because...
I don't know what the final balance of the payment to Dr. Manassian was, but I know where the funds came from.
They came from the athletic department, who made a profit one year, and Dr. Murphy said, okay, we'll pay off the Manassian collection from the Rose Bowl or something like that.
I don't know.
That's a case.
That's kind of exquisite, isn't it?
We were just looking at the illuminated names for someone at Big Daddy the other day.
Yeah, now that is the premier collection in the community.
And, you know, we wouldn't be going after something like this today because this gets back to what I was saying before about the cooperation.
If this were put forward to us today, we would say, well, gee, the Getty is really the one who's collecting this sort of thing.
All right?
I can show you the original.
Let's talk a bit about the private collector.
And you said that this is something of an interesting noise, too.
Didn't you say that in the form that you are interested in collectors?
Maybe you could talk a little bit about
Do you owe anything, not necessarily in terms of monetary help, but what does a research library like this owe to private collectors?
A lot.
Not so much the rest of the general library, but certainly the special collectives on campus rely heavily on private gifts.
We have an allocation from the state
budget that comes to us through the Head of Collection Development.
And it's not a lot of money.
I mean, we're a public institution.
I can tell you these figures.
You can find them out, you know, in public ledgers.
So the allocation to this department is about, it ranges from $70,000 to $90,000 a year, which is not a lot of money for special collections.
So we spend
a good deal of it on our reference resources for the department, on our serial subscriptions for the department.
And we put some of it into our Californiana collection, our children's books, and our 19th century fiction to continue satellite.
Everything else we spend comes from private resources.
And the Italian printing collection is entirely from private resources.
I got a check in the mail yesterday from an estate supporting a collection of children's books.
We have the paper of Holland Clancy Holland, the papers of Holland Clancy Holland who was a children's book writer and illustrator.
He wrote books like Paddle to the Sea and Men at the Mississippi and so forth.
We have all of his original papers and Mrs. Holland died
six or eight months ago, and we had worked with her for years, and she made it a codicil of her will that a certain proportion of her estate would come to this department to support the collection.
And by that, in this case, it means I don't think there's anything more to acquire, but we're going to process it, we're going to put together a traveling exhibition of it, and so forth.
So that's the kind of resource that we get.
And then we get people who just give us collections, we have people who give us money to add to collections like the Italian.
$60,000, $70,000, that's not a lot of money at all.
And that's all you get in your budget?
From the state.
From the state, but that's all you get in your budget from the state for acquisitions?
I understand that.
It represents about 15% of what we spend.
The other 85% coming from private parts.
But you couldn't put together special collections then without the benefactors out there.
No, absolutely not.
And conversely, there is the issue of how much state money would you spend on a department like special collections.
staff to keep hours open and so forth.
So I think there's a political issue involved in not wanting to spend much state money and therefore having to rely on private benefaction to build a special collection side of the library.
And that's livable to me.
Has that always been the case here, by the way?
Absolutely.
So your extraordinary collections are due largely to the beneficence of... Absolutely.
To Alex Mnudian and people like him.
Yeah.
That's nice.
Yeah, but I think it's a little bit more complicated for a state institution as opposed to a private institution.
A private institution has its own Board of Regents.
It looks at its resources and says, okay, we're going to give this much money to the library, and we will help the library so far in fundraising.
A state institution says, you have a library budget based on enrollment, essentially.
And that's the way it works in California, based on your enrollment and number of graduates and undergraduates and size of faculty and so forth.
And it makes it very difficult to justify spending $15,000 or $20,000 on a 15th century book when you could get I don't know how many thousand serial subscriptions for that that would support a wide variety of things.
So we don't want to spend state money.
on this department except for operations.
That's the one thing that I think ought to be fond of.
You clarified something for me.
Going back, you said, if you go to Dr. Murphy and you say, this is something we want, I'll get the money to get it.
What were you talking about there?
Were you talking about, they'll get the money to acquire a special collection?
Yeah.
But he will go out into the community and write and contact his sources.
Yes, exactly.
in the Los Angeles area?
And beyond, sometimes.
I mean, there were times, I don't have a specific example for you, but I know that there were times, as he was trying to bring UCLA up to par, when he would go to the regents and ask the regents or the president of the university to speak to the legislature about augmenting the library budget.
But once again, I think there he was looking at basic operations.
And to give, well, this isn't really relevant.
I was going to talk about the number of cereals that the library gets, but it's irrelevant, really, to overturn down and take that from if you want.
Do you find that the Los Angeles community, the Beverly Hills community, is very supportive in general of your needs?
To a certain extent.
I mean, we have a very...
complicated development program on campus.
And I cannot go out unilaterally and go talk to Magic Johnson or somebody like that and say, or Corrine, let's say, who is an alumnus, and say, Corrine, how about the library?
Because the development office has already decided what Corrine is going to do for UCLA.
But we do identify people who are interested in library events.
I mean, we have strong friends of the library group.
And then it's up to the development office to cultivate them.
And then we have people like Franklin Murphy, Chancellor Emeritus, who is in the community, too.
And it all kind of works.
Networking.
Yes.
That's the buzzword.
Networking.
It all kind of works.
Let's talk about collections as collections.
How much do you think in terms of so many
Great collections wouldn't exist if it weren't for the idiosyncrasies of the obsession of a person who might be fascinated by, you know, 17th century New England witchcraft.
Cornell has this great witchcraft collection, and that's because somebody just had it and put it together.
I don't think that anybody at Cornell would actually think, if you're thinking about developing collections, that go out and do this, but somebody did it.
and the collector put it together, and then you have this resource.
I mean, do you find this kind of situation?
Every library has that.
I would say it's not the way that UCLA has grown, because, again, historically, if you look at what Lawrence Clark Powell, Bob Bosker, Franklin Murphy, Russell Shank, one of our more recent university librarians, have been trying to accomplish,
I think the real difference is we've always had a plan of what we wanted to accomplish, and that plan is focused on the academic programs.
We establish a Center for Near Eastern Studies, and then we know we have to have library resources for it.
So when our librarians are out looking for collections that support what's going on on campus, the Italian printing collection doesn't exist in a vacuum.
We have several chaired positions in art history and history and so forth that make use of this collection.
It's a collection that also has many first printed editions of classical works, and so the classics department makes use of it, and certainly the library school does from teaching the history of the book.
So when I speak of some of the great collections that are here, and I say, for example, that we had an opportunity to buy 45 Aldeans in 1961, it wasn't buying Aldeans for the sake of buying Aldeans.
It was buying Aldeans to support the research that's going on on this campus.
Well, do you ever get any collections that don't?
Is that kind of a role that every collection that you require?
has to in some way support the curriculum?
No, but it's the first thing that we look at.
Nowadays, if someone offers us a collection, the first thing we say is, how does this fit into what we already have?
How does it support what's going on here?
Or a third question, is this breaking new ground that needs to be broken?
That's another way of looking at it, of a collection that doesn't seem to quite fit in to what you're doing.
But that's, again, a historical policy, written or unwritten, that that's the way this library has developed.
And therefore, that's the attitude that we have when something is offered to us.
I also have an unwritten rule of thumb nowadays because we have so much.
If someone offers us a collection, let's say of books, because that's relatively easy to deal with as an example, and we have more than 50% of the books in that collection, I'm inclined to turn that collection down.
But I don't just say, no, we're not interested.
What I say is, we already have most of what you've got.
Have you considered some of the smaller institutions in town like Occidental College or the Claremont Colleges who might better be able to make use of this?
So it's not a singular thing.
Oh, here's a collection on witchcraft.
Do we want it?
But here's a collection on witchcraft.
Anybody teaching witchcraft on campus?
I mean, you know, we don't just give an instantaneous answer.
We go and find out what's going on, first and foremost, if it's out of our scope of knowledge.
To go back to your example of the collector who may have a pretty nice collection of first editions or something or anything, and you may have 50% at war.
As many institutions I can think of would take it anyway and probably sell them.
We do that sometimes, too.
I mean, I can't give you...
A cut-and-dry policy and procedure, I have to look at everything, and my librarians have to look at everything on an individual basis.
I mean, is this an area of activity?
Do we want the other 50%?
And then we would certainly take the duplicates.
I mean, if it's something that's not an area of activity, that's the point at which we might refer them somewhere else.
Is it something you think you might tell the prospective donor?
You've got a 500 book or a 1,000 book collection, and there are 300 there that we'd really love to have, that we'd love to take it, but understand that we may sell out the others.
Do you think that you'd tell them that?
Again, if it looks like it's an appropriate thing to do.
I mean, I wouldn't take it and not tell them that if that's what we were going through.
Because a lot of people are really interested in keeping these things together as a unit, too.
Exactly.
And there are times when we will simply do that and duplicate the holdings.
But what I'm saying is that I have to look at every collection in and of itself that is offered to us.
and see is it being offered as a gift?
What are the political connections?
What are the research values to the collection?
What do we already have of it?
To answer your question, or to rephrase your collection, would the donor be willing for us to break the collection up?
I've done that.
I've done all of that.
We just do it one way.
We have to look at every single thing that comes in individually and say, and ask all of those questions.
Let's go to another point that will help us.
Let's say there's a collection you really want, really, really want.
Warrior Swanson's collection, let's say, which went to Texas, and a lot of people thought they were going to get it.
I don't know if it was USC or here, that was after it.
BU certainly wanted it.
It was SC, not us.
SC, I think, yeah.
But it wasn't there.
And there were inducements, the Texas curator, maybe a room.
Have you ever offered rooms?
We went through Texas with a Knotch room.
There must be a dozen rooms.
I have no rooms to offer.
Rooms coming out of their ears down there.
Yeah, I have no rooms to offer.
And a lot of times we get people who say, I want to give you this, but on condition.
And we cannot promise what we cannot give.
When you walk around here, in a few minutes you'll see that we are very pressed for space.
I have no empty rooms waiting for names to be added to them or collections to be put into them.
And we are talking about building an addition to this library, but we don't have the funding for it yet.
When we do that, well, not some talk.
We know that special collections will move into new quarters in that wing if and when we get that wing.
But I'm not lining up people and setting up 20 separate rooms of collections.
It's impossible to manage, number one.
We don't have the staff to do that.
And we come back to the issue of state institution and a budget that's driven by enrollments.
That budget also means the number of staff that we can have.
in the whole library.
And I don't have positions waiting to be filled either.
If anything, I need more staff, but that's not the way I would fill it.
We cannot function that way.
It can't happen.
We are talking to a couple of donors whose collections are already here about the funding of that new building
and are talking about rooms with them.
But to answer the question about if somebody on the outside comes along and says, I want a room, I can't promise them that.
It's not for me to give, it's for the development office to decide if they want to do that.
But to go back to that example you just cited, these few individuals you are talking to, it's understood that they would probably pay for these rooms, right?
And if they want the room... Right.
I worked at another institution, George Washington University in Washington, before I came out here.
And we used to say of the development officer, the head of development there, the vice president for development, that he had every inch of the campus priced.
But there was a huge building program going on there, a revitalization of that whole west end of Washington, and a lot of new buildings going up.
We don't have new buildings.
We're playing musical chairs right now with departments, and not just the library, but other departments on campus, because our power library is to undergo seismic renovation, and everybody has to get out.
And we are really scrambling just to find places to put existing programs, people, if this building, I don't know if you came in from the west side of the building, but there's construction on the west end.
And that's a temporary building that's going up to house a library school, which has to get out of Powell Library.
I mean, we're not in a position to, we have no space to offer anybody as an inducement to giving them, giving us their collection.
What we do offer them is this, that we are, we have competent staff that will process and catalog the collection, that we have a high activity of use, and it's not a collection that's going to be accepted never to see the light of day again.
If we think the collection is worthwhile, based on all the criteria I gave you before about to what use would it be put, who's teaching witchcraft, who's doing this or that, that's what we offer them.
You know, if you want to place your collection somewhere, give it to us because I can guarantee you that it will be used.
That's great.
Yeah, yeah.
Did you see Raiders of the Lost Ark, the first Indiana Jones movie at the end?
At the last scene when the government has taken the Ark away from Indiana Jones and there's this clerk wheeling it into a warehouse that goes on endlessly full of crates.
Do you remember that image at all?
I don't want anybody to ever have that image that it's going to get, something is going to get buried here, lost forever, never
to be used again.
And that's what our attitude is.
Do you allow photo duplication of your manuscript stuff?
Manuscripts in particular?
All right.
I know the context of that.
The simple answer is yes.
The complicated answer is if there are no restrictions placed on the manuscripts by the donor or the literary executor of the manuscripts,
and if the photo duplication does not do any physical harm to the item, and if the person is doing it only for private research purposes, not for publication.
Well, what if it's a scholar who's doing research and then will be quoting from this document?
Quoting from it is one thing.
Reproducing it in facsimile or transliterating it is another matter.
Okay, and it also...
But as every institution, you'll require approval, permission to quote from writing.
But, you know, of course, you do know the context I'm asking, I said, because it's policy in Texas.
You can't do it.
I mean, if you want... Michael Holroyd wants to finish his Shah biography and he wants to see these letters, he can't see them.
He has to go to Austin to do it.
He can't order Xeroxes from Texas
You may have to spend four weeks down there going through the letters.
That's right.
And it's policy.
In fact, even if there are copies, they insist, they say when they buy things that there better be no other copies of this.
They want total title to the whole thing.
What do you think of that policy?
There are many days when I wish we had it because it would be so easy to administer, okay?
you just say no.
But it doesn't do much to serve scholarship.
Exactly, exactly.
So we're trying to work from the point of view of the criteria that I mentioned.
I'll give you a copy of our photo duplication policy.
That's a standard policy, by the way, which is perfectly understandable and makes sense.
Yeah, and I think what they're reserving, especially if they've obtained literary rights to the material, is
the possibility of their publishing it at some time and garnering some financial return on that.
I guess what it comes down to is that I don't have a staff here that is going to fulfill that kind of promise, you know, where we will publish it rather than anybody else.
We don't want to impede scholarship.
We do want to protect literary rights.
So here is a good example.
It's not just a matter of whose papers they are, but what are in those papers.
We have, I'm trying to think, I guess it's in our oldest Huxley collection.
There are T.S.
Eliot letters.
There are certain restrictions on Huxley's material from Laura Huxley, and permission has to be obtained from her by readers.
If a reader wants to quote or reproduce any of the Eliot material which are in the Huxley papers, they have to get permission from the Eliot estate.
I mean, you know this.
I mean, this is standard procedure.
But it doesn't... We will... Our department functions this way rather than just saying, no, you can't have a copy.
We'll serve as an intermediary to a scholar.
We will write.
to Mrs. Elliott and say, so-and-so is here, wants a copy of Mr. Elliott's letter to Mr. Huxley dated such-and-so, wouldn't give permission for a copy for private New Zealand.
And she can say yes or no.
But I mean, we're not just saying no categorically.
And what I meant before when I said it, that would save us a lot of trouble and work if we were to do that.
But I think this also goes along philosophically with what we're trying to do
with use of the collections again, and we want to facilitate research, not impede it, not make Michael O'Royd, make a trip to L.A.
And stay here for six weeks.
Yeah, just for the purposes of access.
Now, and that's where I'm trying to make the distinction.
Access for us is free, quote-unquote.
I mean, if he asks for microfilm of something, he will pay for the cost of the microfilms.
But the access is free.
It's the publication that isn't.
Well, I purchased two oral histories from UCLA.
Okay.
I mean, we were able to do this over the phone and through the mail.
Right.
Exactly.
I paid whatever I paid for the pages.
That's understood.
And a mailing charge, probably, and that's it.
I mean, that's the way we function.
Yeah, that's terrific.
Maybe we shouldn't.
Who knows?
What's the point of it all?
Then I come back to the issue of justifying why we exist.
I think the main thing is we don't want to be this department perceived any differently from the rest of the library.
We catalog our books using the same system.
We provide the same kind of access to materials, although under a more restricted basis, but not access because, oh, you're only a kid.
What do you need with this?
or not access because whatever.
You know, if you can't come here, you can't see it.
We don't function that way.
And like I said, there are many days when I'd like to function like Texas, so I'm not criticizing them either.
Okay.
What else?
Do you have any questions for us?
That's an excellent interview.
I love it.
That's good.
I mean, everything was useful.
Maybe you could... I'll walk you around.
Did I send you brochures and things like that?
You did, yeah.
Okay.